# twpop
some guide and codes(in a later date) for processing household registration (戶籍) population in Taiwan

In Taiwan, there are two kinds of national population statistics: household registration (戶籍) and business & Industrial census (工商普查). The former reflects the number of residents across Taiwan, tabulating data from local magistrates. On the other hand, the B&I census recorded the demography of employees and their employers. One might notice I use different tenses for them. That's because household registration is updated for each month, whereas B&I is conducted every five years, and generally published 1-2 years later. Having monthly data may sound good, however, one must consider if such frequency fits their purpose. Furthermore, the MOI and local magistrates don’t require residents to update their residency if they move, thus it’s not uncommon for people to keep their old residency to maintain some perks or benefits provided by the local government.

The household registration is kept by the Ministry of Interior (B&I by BGBAS). Its public records contain the number of residents and households, distribution of gender and age, and the aggregate entity the statistics belong to. The smallest entity is 村/里(chun/li, 'village/community'), practically the third governing and statistical level in Taiwan. Average population for each village is a few thousands people, while much larger ones exist. Working on a village dataset comes with the benefit of conducting GIS analysis. This expands research scope into spatial relationships, allowing demographic or economic information to be attached to any point datasets. Once you establish this spatial relationship, there is more than linking up a store to its village. For example, you will be able to create central places through Voronoi’s diagram that gives a more precise picture of stores’ customer exposure, and same goes for any statistics that have village level observations. 

That sounds good, as long as you know how to connect all sorts of data through their attributes. This is mainly achieved through matching the code and the name from files of interest. Most villages will be merged without trouble based on either information. But naming and coding methods can be different for various types of administrations and, bizarrely, government departments.  Failed and false merges take a lot of time to be cleaned.

As researchers, your greatest enemy in collecting Taiwanese population is its government. First, like many governments, the Taiwanese government has constrained creativity in terms of naming places. Future analysts are advised to rely on names only if a nested merging method is developed. 

On the other hand, the village code is rather liberal in Taiwan. Various departments could have their own codes, though translatable. Another issue occurs in the special municipalities (直轄市) that were formerly provincial cities (省轄市). They were either a provincial city/county upgraded alone, or two neighboring administrations merged and upgraded together. Both situations lead to a new city code, so knowing when and how the government made such changes is important. The best course would be establishing your own record for such changes, figuring out if they led to any change in code or name, and adding clauses in your code to address them.

Alas, the household registration has one final trick awaiting us. Its most essential information, the village boundary, is rather fluid. There is no fixed rule on its redrawing, which fully depends on local councils. Spoil Alert: MOI DOESN'T KEEP RECORD. For the pre-digital period, there is no escape from this problem. Otherwise, some of the local governments, NOT MOI, do keep various versions of village boundaries reflecting these changes. Indeed, it would require merging GIS files from different counties. But if you have the will to go through multiple local bureaucracy, why not take one more step to learn some GIS skills?
